# Data Analysis with Pandas

## Description
This project works with the dataset of students' performance in university. 
The dataset is in a CSV file and contains the students' names, semester and 
subjects with final grades. The project uses the Pandas library to read the
data, analyze it and answer some questions about the students' performance.
It uses matplotlib to plot some graphs to visualize the data.

Dataset Structure:

| Student |  Semester  | Math    | Physics | Chemistry | Biology | English |
|---------|------------|---------|---------|-----------|---------|---------|
| _name_  | _semester_ | _grade_ | _grade_ |  _grade_  | _grade_ | _grade_ |


## Components
* **DataManager**: Handles the data reading, accessing and manipulation.
* **Cleaner**: Cleans the data by replacing or removing any invalid or missing data.
* **Analyzer**: Analyzes the data according to the provided tasks.
* **Visualizer**: Visualizes the data using matplotlib.
* **figures**: The folder containing the figures generated by the Visualizer.
* **data**: The folder containing the dataset.

## **Features** ##
Application provides the following functionalities:
* **Data Management**:
  * Read and save the data from and to a CSV or Excel file.
  * Access the data using the DataManager. Also provides data manipulation methods.
  * Clean the data using the Cleaner with the help of `clean_with_dropna()`, `clean_with_mean()` or `clean_with_zeros()`.
* **Data Analysis**: calculates the basic statistics of the data.
* **Data Visualization**: `plot_average()` and `plot_average_semester()` plots the data using matplotlib.


### Provided Tasks
**Data-Analysis Tasks:**
- [x] Print the list of students who have failed in any subject (grade < 50).
- [x] Print the average grade of each subject in each semester.
- [x] Find the student(s) who have the highest average grade in all semesters and subjects.
- [x] Find the subject that was hardest for students. (lowest average grade in all semesters).
- [x] Create a new DataFrame where you will generate the average grade in each semester for each subject.
- [x] Find the Students who improved their grades in each semester.

**Data-Visualization Tasks:**
- [x] Create a Bar plot of the average grade of each subject in all semesters.
- [x] Create a Line plot of the average grade of each semester in all subjects.

## Usage
To run the application, use the following command in your terminal:
```bash
python main.py
```

## Dependencies
* **Python 3.x**
* **Pandas**: library providing data structures and data analysis tools.
* **Matplotlib**: library for creating static, animated, and interactive visualizations in Python.

